[docs] add content to coredb contributor build/test (#15627)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/contribute/core-database/build-and-test.md

In general, they come down to these components:

- build:
  - C++: C++ code in `src/yb/` and `ent/src/yb` for `yb-master`, `yb-tserver`, `yb-admin`, test binaries, etc.
  - postgres: C code in `src/postgres/` for `postgres`, `ysql_dump`, `libyb_pgbackend`, `libpq`, etc.
  - Java: Java code in `java/` for CDC, Java tests, drivers, etc.
  - `initdb`: pre-created initial system catalog snapshot for YSQL
- test:
  - C++ tests
  - Java tests

For a full list of options, run `yb_build.sh -h`.
What follows are some of the common options to pay attention to.

## Build

### Targets

By default, all items are built.
You can specify a target to narrow down what to build.
See `./yb_build.sh -h` for the supported targets.
Besides that, certain flags may skip building some items.
For example, specifying a flag to run a C++ test skips the Java build (but running a Java test won't skip the C++ build).

Although there is some intelligence to avoid rebuilding parts, it is incomplete.
For example, the postgres build uses a build stamp calculated from a git commit and working changes; if there is a mismatch, it reruns postgres configure and make.

> Java is worse in that it runs all the build even if there are no changes since the last run.

Reviewer: Replace "Java is worse in that it runs all the build" with e.g. "The Java part has a disadvantage that it runs the full build"

Use the `--skip-cxx-build`/`--scb` and `--skip-java-build`/`--sj` flags to reduce incremental build times.

`initdb` is a special case because it is only built if it hasn't been built before, but it isn't rebuilt again unless the `reinitdb` target is specified.
You should run `reinitdb` in case the initial system catalog in the source code is different since the last time `initdb` was run, unless you intentionally want to use the old initial system catalog (for example, to test upgrades).

### Build generator

CMake is used.

> If there are any changes to CMake files since the last build, the next incremental build may throw a build error, such as the following:

Reviewer: In many cases, CMake knows that some of its input files have changed and re-runs the generation step.

```output

> FAILED: build.ninja

Reviewer: I have not seen this exact output, and I am not sure what the error is in this case.

```

In that case, run the build with `--force-run-cmake`/`--frcm`.

### Build tool

By default, `ninja` is used, but `make` is also supported.
Specify the build tool using the `--make` and `--ninja` flags.

### Build type

The following build types are available:

- debug (the default)
- release
- fastdebug: fewer compiler optimizations and a few other tweaks on debug
- asan: address sanitizer
- tsan: thread sanitizer

### Compiler

By default, `clang` is used, but `gcc` is also supported.

Specify the compiler using the `--gcc<version_number>` and `--clang<version_number>` flags.

> For example, `--gcc11` or `--clang15`.

Reviewer: Perhaps don't specify examples with exact versions of GCC and Clang, so we don't have to update these examples.

Make sure to escape or quote the `*` if your shell interprets it as a glob character.

### Java tests

#### Run all tests

To run all the Java tests, use the following command:

```sh
./yb_build.sh release --java-tests
```

#### Run specific tests

To run a specific test:

```sh
./yb_build.sh release --java-test org.yb.client.TestYBClient
```

To run a specific Java sub-test within a test file, use the # syntax.
For example:

```sh
./yb_build.sh release --java-test 'org.yb.client.TestYBClient#testClientCreateDestroy'
```

`--scb` and `--sj` are recommended in case the C++ and Java code was already built beforehand.

### Run tests multiple times

`yb_build.sh` has a built-in capability of running tests multiple times with parallelism.

- `--num_repetitions`/`-n`: number of times to run the test(s)
- `--test-parallelism`/`--tp`: number of instances of the test to run in parallel

Note that a high parallelism could result in failures if system resources are overused.

### Test frameworks

#### C++ (external) mini cluster

C++ tests are located in `src/yb` or `ent/src/yb` and end in `test.cc`.

Many C++ tests use external mini cluster or mini cluster to create clusters.

> A key difference is that external mini clusters create separate master, tserver, and postgres processes (as in real life), while mini clusters create masters and tservers in memory in the same process and optionally spawn a separate postgres process.

Reviewer: Not sure what "in memory" means here. These in-process masters/tservers use disk similarly to a real server process.

1. Copy test files from the `src` directory to the `build` directory (this is technically done as part of build)
1. Copy test files to a temporary `test` directory
1. In the `test` directory, generate `sql`/`expected` from `input`/`output`
1. In the `test` directory, generate `results` by running tests in `sql`
1. Copy back `results` from the `test` directory to the `build` directory
1. Delete the `test` directory

The files in `results` are compared with those in `expected` to determine pass/fail.

{{< tip title="Tips" >}}

- If you want to quickly run specific SQL files, you can create a dummy java file and dummy schedule with that one test in it.
- Use the following naming convention (some older files haven't adopted it yet but should):
  - `sql/foo.sql`: unchanged from original PostgreSQL code
  - `sql/yb_foo.sql`: completely new file (for example, with new features)
  - `sql/yb_pg_foo.sql`: modified version of original PostgreSQL foo.sql (for example, with compatibility edits)
    - The goal here is to reduce the difference between `foo.sql` and `yb_pg_foo.sql`, when possible.

{{< /tip >}}

### Test flags

The general hierarchy of flags is as follows:

> 

Reviewer 2: capitalize items and add periods

1. test framework: the framework may specify some default flags
1. test superclass: any parent classes of the test class can set flags

> 1. test subclass: child classes' flags should take precedence over parent classes'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Test subclass: child class flags should take precedence over parent class flags.
```

1. test: a test itself may set flags
1. user: the user running the test could add flags

There may be some areas where the order of precedence is not followed: help fixing this is welcome.

> Here are some ways the user may specify flags to tests (capitals are environment variables):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the ways in which you can specify flags to tests (capitals are environment variables) are as follows:
```
